When you have the sacrum, when you have the entire notochordal process, this wave that descends,
with this fulcrum, it creates this notochordal process.
And it is this notochordal process that directly induces an impulse
on the neural plate,
that is, which will orient, organize this force on the neural
plate.
We already see that in three days, you see, the growth...
this embryo that is forming, with one thing we observe, it's the descent,
so to speak,
if you will, of my Hensen's node, in relation to the overall growth of the embryo,
here,
here, and already we see appearing, you see, the beginning of a normal groove
that appears
here, you see, with already the pharyngeal membrane and
the cloacal membrane taking shape, you see.
We see that we have my process, our body there.
We already see the importance of my neural plate starting
to curve like this.
Finally, it will really form an important groove
with a lateral, fluidic reorganization, which is important.
This happens synchronously.
Because at the moment I already have my neural groove that...
starts to form, laterally, immediately, there is a fluidic organization
that occurs in the form, little by little, of the appearance of what we will call
fine capillaries
aortic, that is, for a lateral fluidic process, the
components
are respected, meaning I need a trajectory, I need particles,
I need vacuolizations and metabolic concentrations that are present in this
and which will create a lateral vascular trajectory.
So at the same time, I have my tube closing little by little,
and then laterally I also have a
vascular trajectory in the mesoderm.
At the same time that this phenomenon is happening,
above, you should know that I have my amniotic cavity.
My amniotic cavity contains fluid.
This neural plate begins to form a tube, little by little a groove,
my amniotic fluid is integrated into the
neural tube,
as it happens at the same time below, with the integration of my external coelom into
an internal coelom.
To the point that when my neural tube completely closes,
that is, when the anterior neuropore and the posterior neuropore close,
I have the complete integration of the external coelom.
So I have both a visceral box, I have an abdominal cavity
that is forming,
and a cerebral cavity that is also closing. This happens at the same time, on the 28th day,
a synchronicity. So there's a magical moment that happens, a moment
where we have the
first time, we have the meeting of this closure. With
this integration, we are
that happens here, my aortas, my notochord, it's a tissue that will also form around,
it's a tissue that will also form around,
in metabolic fields of retention. We'll see that a little later.
later. I'm trying to make
the killer of this killer. For us, as osteopaths, it's interesting,
it's to see
these phenomena that happen at a distance, but at the same time, in another
space, but at the same time.
The precursor of this neural groove is the notochord.
When you have this closure of this notochord,
you have here what we call basic molecular levels
that will manifest to precisely
decrease the growth rate here.
You see what we call this phenomenon here which is the sonic edge
edge that will intervene here.
which is a process that will work on the dorsalization of the system,
then you have what are called bone morphogenetic proteins, which are here,
and then you also have what are called neural crest cells that will intervene
here,
which are morphogenetic,
molecular manifestations, to find this dynamic.
That means the movement...
that we observe, which has been described by, among others, Bleschmidt or by other authors,
are found with phenomena of inhibition or induction on the
basic molecular phenomena of genetic type.
So, what we observe is that the notochord will influence,
in the sense that the cells here will have more of a phenomenon
of induction.
So, they become...
in relation to my notochord, a fulcrum.
This is information that will be quite important later,
with also all these phenomena, we could say,
that will participate in neurulation,
which are these molecular phenomena, of genetic,
protein type,
to influence the system.
This will first influence my ventral midline, it will
cause, through this phenomenon, the dorsal midline.
The dorsal midline, through its growth, will re-influence the
phenomenon of the anterior midline.
So I end up with a ventral, dorsal, and anterior midline.
And all of these are ultimately also molecular phenomena.
We find, you see, morphogenetic protein poles of type 4, 7,
which will participate in dorsalization, at this level.
Here, the 4s that will participate in the anterior orientation towards the ventral midline.
All these are molecular phenomena that are explained,
that we find on the scientific level,
which explain the program, if you will,
and which is also organized at this level.
So, that means it's the movement...
that will reorient.
So the genes are not the engine
for development.
It's the environment, it's the force
around. We could almost say it's
a mechanical event at the start.
It's the development
of your basic,
neurochemical consciousness.
Do we find this level
in practice, and how?
First, there are two things.
The important thing is to know,
try to discover the environment as best as possible.
in which your patient evolves. That's already a first step to understanding your patient.
I especially give back the notochordal axis. I put myself there because it is the reference.
And then, I will free as best as possible the almost fluidic side
of your brain,
give it back and see in the sand to remove dried-up areas, for example.
There are energetically dried-up zones.
There are programs that don't open, and helping those programs, if they should open or not open.
open.
We are still going to work on a level, it's the level of the first moment of closure
of your tube.
That was the question.
And we're going to work on that, because we're going to look in the body to see where it is.
And that's where we're going to rebalance the nervous system.
That is, your sympathetic and parasympathetic system.
And that's very important, and I'm going to explain how we get there.
Let's remember these 3 meters here.
My ectodermal tissue with its epithelial cells.
You know that this movement is induced by my notochord via molecular processes.
You notice that the lateral part grows faster and that it will form
this groove.
And there, we are already beginning to distinguish the appearance of
cells that will form.
my neural tube,
that is, the entire part
of the spinal canal
and the brain.
And then we'll see laterally here
cells that will form
the epithelial epidermal tissue,
the skin,
and we will see appearing
on the side here
another structure
which will be very, very important,
which we can still consider
as a fourth tissue.
what we call the primordium of the neural crest tissues, which
is here.
Cells here in red, cells here in blue,
cells here in blue.
Not only does the neural tube close,
and there it will have taken into its interior
interior,
amniotic fluid.
Laterally, I will see here the appearance of cells
that will come here, which will be called neural crest cells,
which will form the entire peripheral nervous system
and also which will make important connections with what is called the mesoderm
later
to form the ectomesenchymal tissues.
like the face, the bones of the skull, etc.
The neural crest cell is a migration,
like a suction field of rhombencephalic neural crests
of type 1, 2, 3, 4, to form the entire facial system.
When we talk about rhombencephalon, it means that at some point,
the brain, in its cephalic part, here, will form what is called
The prosencephalon, the mesencephalon and the rhombencephalon.
These are three small vesicles.
But each of them, on its line here, also creates a crest like this, which we call
the neural crest,
and which will be found, to be as if aspirated towards the
anterior part to form, for example, all your viscerocranium.
You should know that the tissue that is here, all of it, is not the same tissue that is here.
This is neural crest.
This is pure epidermis. So that means it's a tissue here that is informed
inside your body, which is both a tissue that
informs and is informed. It receives information and it can transmit it,
but also from the center to the periphery, from the periphery to the center.
You have sensors here, for example, on atmospheric pressure, the
light that...
that you receive informs you it's first blue, meaning it's
ectoderm, but this ectoderm in the phase where it receives
the information here
from my notochord through molecular plans
of protein genetic type
the information here does not grow so the cells here the tissue we can say
that we will observe that it will give three different types of cells
The cells that will form only the neural tube, laterally,
here, at the tube, it will form what are called the neural crests and even more
here, it will form the epidermal epiblast.
So, the skin, the neural tube, the crests.
We'll talk about it because it will give a lot, a lot of things in the body.
You really have to consider it as a huge tissue, all your nervous system.
peripheral, all your mesenteric plexuses, the parts at the level of the face,
at the level
of the nails, at the level of the teeth, at the level of the eyes, at the level of the tongue, it's really
a... and which will mix with mesoderm to form
ectomesenchyme.
Now we add a simple element here.
First, I still have my notochord.
I still have my notochord.
Secondly, here around, I have an amniotic cavity,
so there is fluid.
In this fluid, it contains building proteins, which are proteins
among others for structuring.
That means that the fluid here is found both here, but
around, I forgot to draw something here,
is that now here, I have...
And the tissue that has closed, which is called the skin tissue.
So that means the fluid that is here, inside,
and you also have fluid that is here outside.
And it's the same fluid.
That's why in some writings, the quality of the skin is described.
The quality of the skin expresses the quality...
That's why we call the skin tissue expresses the skin.
of the cerebrospinal fluid in depth, cerebrospinal fluid,
you have the arterial system, you have the venous system, and
you have the lymphatic system.
These are the major important fluids, you still have other fluids like the synovial system,
or other, etc.
This is the master, this is the fluid that knows, this is the fluid that gives movement,
this is the fluid that gives movement,
fluid that cleans here, and these are the garbage. This is the knowing fluid.
It was there, it was there super early. There was still a fluid that was
before it. It's the one that will form the digestive tube, and
which will no longer be a fluid,
which will be a cavity.
The blast cell, the first cavity that will appear, and then we saw at some point,
is that I respond to the first.
And then you have a second chamber that will appear, it's the amniotic cavity.
After that, you'll have a third chamber appearing, which will be the speed
of differential growth
between the blood and the periphery of your implanted embryo.
It will create a space between your blastocyst cavity
and it will form the external coelom
and the amniotic cavity, the vitelline cavity.
And the vitelline cavity, at some point, it will...
be taken back into your digestive system
to make your digestive tract.
So there will be a link, at some point,
that will be made with amniotic fluid
and this cavity, because the child
will drink this amniotic fluid at some point,
he will integrate it
into his body, he will
constellate, that is
he will inform himself from
autocrine, paracrine,
that each time he knows where he is. Why?
Because at some point he will have a pre-urine
that will be emitted,
that is, to go
into his analytical cavity from, after the 28th day,
once the neural tube is closed, otherwise you're peeing in your brain,
you're going to have to eliminate that, so after the 28th day you're going to eliminate some of your first priorities
and that will create a support at the ground level, a connection with your aortic system
aortic
and then at the same time you will see and so you will know where you are in your development.
He informs himself like that.
You have this level here called SHH, which
is really a genetic, the sonic Hedgehog, which is really important,
the CAMs, cells, molecular adhesions at the neuronal level,
with a whole important complex called the cadherin complexes.
They are all attached, it's often calcium, that's why we talk.
of specific calcium ions that work in the adherens.
That's why they're called cadherins, calcium inside.
I have this groove, I have the cephalic part, the caudal part,
and then at some point, boom, the first moment it closes.
So if we look at an embryo, at this stage, the cephalic part
is very large compared to...
the caudal part
if now I have this moment of closure here
I already know a little bit
the dimension of my embryo
I know the relationships
I have practically the whole head
and the whole trunk
all this corresponds to the cephalic part
all this corresponds to the trunk part
where would it be
now
In the tissue that is present here, where is this closure located?
We are no longer on the tip of our notochord, we are under the nervous system.
The notochord is below, here.
We are between prosencephalon, mesencephalon, rhombencephalon.
Above and below the foramen magnum.
At the moment the spinal canal begins, that is, at the level of C0-C1,
well, there, you find yourself in the lower part, here.
This is the part here where we could say where I find myself below the foramen magnum,
left and right.
This is the part where I am above the foramen magnum, left and right.
What makes it at this level?
Remember the algorithm and why.
If it closes earlier, it's because it develops faster.
Because it eats more.
Why does it eat more?
Because it receives more.
It's my heart's pulsation that does that.
There, we will then integrate all the metabolic fields into this movement
for the ectomeninx,
all the important relationship at the level of my building
morphological, proteins,
in short, all these structuring proteins, growth factors.
We're going beyond all that.
I'm going to animate this image.
I have my amniotic cavity.
I have my vitelline cavity, between the two I have my tridermic disc,
then I'm going to take this tridermic disc, I'm going to remove the amniotic cavity,
remove the vitelline cavity, and turn the upper face towards you, and we will see the movement of my neural tube
neural tube closing, and we will see the first moment I have this impulse.
And we will use this first encounter between the
left and the right, if you will, at the level of your neural tube on the anterior plane,
as a therapeutic tool to rebalance the system.
The posterior neuropore
and the anterior neuropore.
8 faces
with the cardiac zone
a little anatomy question
Philippe, this is for you.
Once the
neuropore
anterior is closed. What anatomical structure becomes
?
The lamina terminalis!
You see the cardiac zone here?
What it will have is a pulse on this cell.
It's gone, it's gone.